27/03/2025 - DevOps  
terraform, Jenkins, docker, kubernetes & installations, ansible, nagios  
OS - The interface between hardware and software.  
cloud computing - It is the on-demand delivery of IT resources over the internet. You can access technical resources such as storage, databases, compute, networking, and security with pay-as-you-go pricing.  
Cloud Providers - AWS, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform  
SDLC - Software Development Life Cycle is a structured process used by development teams to create high-quality, cost-effective, and secure software.  
Waterfall Model, Agile methodology  
Applications to download - mobaXterm (free, installer edition), AWS console login  
Components of Server - OS (Linux/win/mac), RAM (6/8/12/16 GB), ROM (HDD/SSD), Networking, EC2 (Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud)  
Commands -  
sudo su  
ls lists all the files and directories  
touch creates empty files (e.g., touch newfile)  
cat > newfile writes content into newfile  
clear clears the screen  
cat newfile reads the content in the file  
rm newfile removes the file  
mkdir dir1 creates an empty directory  
cd dir1 changes the directory  
cd .. exits from the directory  
rmdir deletes an empty directory  
rm -r deletes a directory with files  
ls -l lists files with permissions  
pwd prints the present working directory  
history shows a list of previously executed commands  
cd ../.. comes out of two directories together  
DevOps - A set of practices, principles, and cultural philosophies designed to bridge the gap between software development and operations. The goal of DevOps is to shorten the SDLC, improve collaboration, and deliver high-quality software faster and more efficiently.  
Key elements include automation, CI (Continuous Integration), CD (Continuous Development/Deployment), collaboration/communication, and monitoring.  
Waterfall Model - It has distinct goals for each phase: Requirements, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Operations. Limitations include the difficulty of going back to the concept stage after an application enters the testing phase.  
Agile Methodology - DevOps is a culture that fosters collaboration among all participants in the development and maintenance of software. Agile methodology is designed to maintain productivity and drive releases, even with changing needs.  
The cycle includes Plan, Design, Develop, Test, Deploy, Review, and Launch.  
CI - Continuous development (plan, code), Continuous Testing (build, test), Continuous Deployment (release, deploy), Continuous Monitoring (operate, monitor)  
EC2 - Elastic Compute Cloud  
Server - A system that provides services or data to other systems, known as clients. Servers manage, store, and process data, handling requests and delivering responses within a network.  
Types of servers include web servers (e.g., Nginx), file servers, database servers (e.g., MySQL, MongoDB), and mail servers (e.g., Microsoft Exchange).  
EC2 Configuration -  
1. Launch an instance  
2. Name the server  
3. Select an Application & OS Image (Amazon Machine Image)  
4. Choose Windows OS, select the instance type with at least 16GB RAM for high speed  
5. Name the Key Pair (RSA, .pem) for secure connection  
6. Configure Networking with firewalls, VPC (Virtual Private Cloud), subnets, route tables, NAT, Internet Gateway, and Elastic IPs  
7. Configure storage using EBS (Elastic Block Store), which is similar to a hard disk and supports persistent block-level storage.  
Connecting to Instance -  
1. Use an RDP client to download the remote desktop file and get the password.  
2. In Git Bash, use the command ssh ec2@<instance_ip>  
3. To send files from the server to a GitHub repository:  
   sudo yum update  
   sudo yum install git -y  
   touch file  
   sudo su  
   git init  
   git add .  
   git commit  
   git remote add origin <repo_url>  
   git push origin master
